#not needed anymore










Sexist – one gender is considered subservient or inferior to the other.
Religious – culture is heavily influenced by a religion or belief systems, possibly one unique to this world
Artistic – art and culture are highly prized. Aesthetic design is important in all artefacts produced on world.
Ritualised – social interaction and trade is highly formalised. Politeness and adherence to raditional forms is considered very important.
Conservative – the culture resists change and outside influences.
Xenophobic – the culture distrusts outsiders and alien influences. Offworlders will face considerable prejudice.




Taboo – a particular topic is forbidden and cannot be discussed. Travellers who unwittingly mention this topic will be ostracised.
Deceptive – trickery and equivocation are considered acceptable. Honesty is a sign of weakness.
Liberal – the culture welcomes change and offworld influence. Travellers who bring new and strange ideas will be welcomed.
Honourable – one’s word is one’s bond in the culture. Lying is both rare and despised.
Influenced – the culture is heavily influenced by another, neighbouring world. Roll again for a cultural quirk that has been inherited from the culture.
Fusion – the culture is a merger of two distinct cultures. Roll again twice to determine the quirks inherited from these cultures. If the quirks are incompatible, then the culture is likely divided.




Barbaric – physical strength and combat prowess are highly valued in the culture. Travellers may be challenged to a fight, or dismissed if they seem incapable of defending themselves. Sports tend towards the bloody and violent.
Remnant – the culture is a surviving remnant of a once-great and vibrant civilisation, clinging to its former glory. The world is filled with crumbling ruins, and every story revolves around the good old days.
Degenerate – the culture is falling apart and is on the brink of war or economic collapse. Violent protests are common, and the social order is decaying.
Progressive – the culture is expanding and vibrant. Fortunes are being made in trade; science is forging bravely ahead.
Recovering – a recent trauma, such as a plague, war, disaster or despotic regime has left scars on the culture.
Nexus – members of many different cultures and species visit here.




Tourist Attraction – some aspect of the culture or the planet draws visitors from all over charted space.
Violent – physical conflict is common, taking the form of duels, brawls or other contests. Trial by combat is a part of their judicial system.
Peaceful – physical conflict is almost unheardof. The culture produces few soldiers, and diplomacy reigns supreme. Forceful Travellers will be ostracised.
Obsessed – everyone is obsessed with or addicted to a substance, personality, act or item. This monomania pervades every aspect of the culture.
Fashion - fine clothing and decoration are considered vitally important in the culture. Underdressed Travellers have no standing here.
At war – the culture is at war, either with another planet or polity, or is troubled by terrorists or rebels.




Unusual Custom: Offworlders – space travellers hold a unique position in the culture’s mythology or beliefs, and travellers will be expected to live up to these myths.
Unusual Custom: Starport – the planet’s starport is more than a commercial centre; it might be a religious temple, or be seen as highly controversial and surrounded by protestors.
Unusual Custom: Media – news agencies and telecommunications channels are especially strange here. Getting accurate information may be difficult.
Unusual Customs: Technology – the culture interacts with technology in an unusual way. Telecommunications might be banned, robots might have civil rights, or cyborgs might be property.
Unusual Customs: Lifecycle – there might be a mandatory age of termination, or anagathics might be widely used. Family units might be different, with children being raised by the state or  banned in favour of cloning.
Unusual Customs: Social Standings – the culture has a distinct caste system. Travellers of a low social standing who do not behave appropriately will face punishment.




Unusual Customs: Trade – the culture has an odd attitude towards some aspect of commerce, which may interfere with trade at the spaceport. For example, merchants might expect a gift as part of a deal, or some goods may only be handled by certain families.
Unusual Customs: Nobility – those of high social standing have a strange custom associated with them; perhaps nobles are blinded, or must live in gilded cages, or only serve for a single year before being exiled.
Unusual Customs: Sex – the culture has an unusual attitude towards intercourse and reproduction. Perhaps cloning is used instead, or sex is used to seal commercial deals.
Unusual Customs: Eating – food and drink occupies an unusual place in the culture. Perhaps eating is a private affair, or banquets and formal dinners are seen as the highest form of politeness.
Unusual Customs: Travel – travellers may be distrusted or feted, or perhaps the culture frowns on those who leave their homes.
Unusual Custom: Conspiracy – something strange is going on. The government is being subverted by another group or agency.